Blog post #6 – Final game and reflection 

The final game is a police chase game that can be played either as singleplayer or multiplayer. It has an automatically generated city that is different every time, 
making sure no two runs are the same. The player must drive through the city, looking for an escape while being chased by a police car controlled either by another 
player or by AI mechanics. In multiplayer mode, the screen turns into a split screen so both players can follow their own car around. The game is designed to be played 
on an arcade with the main controls being the joystick.  

When starting the game, the user is introduced to a game menu with animated buttons. They can then select a game mode and start the game. When the “start” button is 
pressed, the CityGenerator creates the city and spawns the player(s) on a road tile that is guaranteed to be connected to the exit using a flood fill check. The player 
can then drive around and try to find the exit while dodging the police car. If caught, a panel will appear, flashing red and blue, informing the player that they have 
lost. They may choose to play again or return to the menu where they can exit the game or choose a different game mode. If the player manages to escape, the player car 
will appear to drive off into the sunset using some scripted animation techniques, and a panel will appear, informing the player that they have won. Here they may 
likewise choose to play again or return to the main menu. There is also a pause option, a pause button may be pressed at any time during the game, pausing it and 
showing the pause panel in which the player can choose to exit or resume the game.  

We’ve implemented most of the things we talked about in our initial planning of the game and a few things that came up along the way, but some things we discussed that 
could be worked in if we continue working on the game are: 

    Adding NPC cars and pedestrians and a proper traffic system to make the city feel more real and alive and add extra obstacles for the game. 

    Adding difficulty, for example toggling the speed of the police car or even adding several police cars to the chase.  

    A scoring system of some kind that might keep track of high scores and make it more competitive.  

    More graphics and animations to add some life and whimsy to the game, for example in the end sequences or in the gameplay itself. 

Beyond adding new features we could also work some more with the Police AI, making it better at the chase, possibly making it predict where the player is going rather 
than ainming for where they are and/or making it better at not getting stuck or caught on corners. 
